## MARSHALLING CONCERNS IN RAPIER COMBAT
1. AUTHORIZATIONS: Competence in other SCA combat styles does not automatically mean competence in rapier. Separate warrants and authorizations in rapier combat are required.  Each Kingdom can decide how they wish to control authorizations for each category of rapier combat.
2. BROKEN BLADES: Marshals and fighters shall pay special attention for missing tips or broken blades.
3. CLOAKS: When cloaks are used, "HOLD" should be called if the cloak becomes tangled about either fighter, or about one of the weapons such that the weapon cannot be withdrawn.  "HOLD" need not be called if the cloak is merely near the face, deflecting a weapon (assuming that the Kingdom rules allow use of the cloak for blocking or deflection), loosely draped over, or weighting down the blade.
4. BLADE GRASPING: Blade grasping is allowed in heavy rapier and cut and thrust rapier.  When a blade has been grasped by an opponent, "HOLD" shall be called if wrestling about the blade occurs.
5. EXCESSIVE IMPACT: Combat in the Society poses risks to the participant. This recognition, however, does not excuse fighters from exercising control of their techniques. If a fighter throws blows which force their opponent to retire from the field, from a real injury (even one which only causes brief incapacitation), the marshal responsible for the field shall take such steps as are appropriate to stop the problem from recurring.
6. MELEE: Melee combats present special challenges to all involved. Society norms are as below:
    1. In melees, fighters are engaged with all opponents immediately upon the call to lay on.
    2. Fighters may strike any opponent with any legal blow if they are within the 180 degree arc of the opponent's front. A fighter who approaches an opponent from behind shall not deliver a blow until he is within that frontal arc. A fighter may never deliberately strike an opponent from behind.
    3. Killing from behind is allowed if it has been announced beforehand. The Society norm for "death from behind" in melees shall be: If a melee scenario allows killing from behind, a fighter does so by laying the rapier blade over the opponent's shoulder, to at least a third of the blade, while calling "Dead, my lord" (or other short, courteous phrases) in a loud, clear voice. Reaching around the neck is forbidden. The opponent will be deemed "killed" from the instant the blade touches his shoulder and shall not attempt to spin, duck or dodge away.
        1. If death from behind is not allowed in a given melee, a fighter who deliberately ignores an attacker behind them, or repeatedly maneuvers to keep their back to an attacker (thereby preventing any attack on them) may be considered for misuse of the rules and obstructive behavior.
        2.  Daggers may also be used but care must be taken not to punch or strike the fighter with the guard or quillions of the dagger when so used.
    4. In special scenario melees (e.g., bridge or town battles), additional restrictions may be imposed by the marshals as needed.
    5. Cut and thrust rapiers may not be used in melees.
7. MINORS: The minimum age for training and authorization in rapier combat is 14. When fighters under the age of 18 undertake training and authorization, the Kingdom Rapier Marshal (or his designated representatives) shall ensure that the minor's parent or legal guardian has observed rapier combat, is aware of the risk of injury inherent in this martial art, and has signed a statement explicitly acknowledging the above.
    1. A youth rapier fighter may participate in melees with other rapier fighters (youth and/or adult) subject to whatever age requirements and other qualifications that are mandated by their kingdom rules.
8. PERIODIC TESTING OF PROTECTIVE GEAR: Kingdoms shall require all gear to have been formally tested (including fabric and mask tests, as appropriate) at least once every two years. Compliance is the responsibility of the individual fighter. Any protective gear may be formally tested if there is concern that the gear may have lost protective ability due to age, wear and tear, or other factors.  (Refer to [Appendix - Testing Standards for SCA Rapier Combat](#testing-standards-for-sca-rapier-combat)).
9. UNFORESEEN SITUATIONS: Should a situation arise not explicitly covered by Corporate or Kingdom rapier combat rules, the marshals should NOT assume that the situation is forbidden or inappropriate. Again: However, no matter how clear or accurate, rules cannot replace common sense, good judgment, and concern for the participants.

