### Before the War
1.  The general rules under which the war will be conducted, compromises between conflicting kingdoms' standards, and the scenario limits for each planned battle shall be negotiated and agreed to in writing in advance by the authorized representatives of all belligerent groups involved. The rules and scenario limits shall be published in the appropriate newsletters. For inter-kingdom wars, notices shall be published according to SCA publication policy by the groups involved. This publication should take place at least thirty (30) days prior to the event. In addition, copies of all of the rules and agreements shall be available on-site, as a handout, for people who do not receive (or did not read) the newsletters. Armor and weapons standards shall default to the established Society minimum standards unless otherwise specified in the event rules and scenario limits.
2.  Each side in a battle shall provide a reasonable number of trained and experienced marshals. If not enough marshals are available, the sides should arrange for a draft from their armies.
3.  All marshals should be separately briefed prior to the meetings of all participants. (They should also attend the group briefing.) Emphasis at this briefing should be on enforcing the rules and scenario limits for each battle and on preventing accidents that could arise from hazards related to the scenario limits and to the actual terrain. There should be an understanding among the marshals regarding the rules and scenario specifics and any possible safety issues that may arise. At inter-kingdom events the differences between the attending kingdoms should be discussed and compromises and clarity in the rules and scenarios regarding those differences should be worked out.
4.  All participants shall be gathered to hear the rules and the scenario limits explained to them. The event stewards and/or the marshals should answer their questions. If the scenario limits vary radically from battle to battle, this procedure should be repeated before each battle.
5.  Equipment inspection must take place before combat starts, with particular emphasis on any modifications that have been made in the process of making compromises between conflicting kingdom standards.

