### General Information
1.  At each event, the marshal-in-charge must arrange for the inspection of all equipment to be used in combat (e.g., armor and weapons). This in no way relieves the individual combatants of their responsibility for following the equipment standards. Ultimately, the fighter is responsible for the condition and safety of their armor and weapons at all times. This includes periods between bouts, between battles, and day to day periods between battles at a multi-day event. However, the marshal's inspection is intended to provide a second pair of experienced eyes and an outside point of view. A reminder: Equipment that was perfectly serviceable at the beginning of the previous event could have broken since, and even the most experienced fighter can occasionally forget some piece of armor. The inspection outlined below is merely an example. For purposes of illustration, the inspection described is for regular SCA combat without missile weapons. It does not necessarily include checks for additional requirements that your kingdom may have added. A checklist might be helpful as you do the inspection until you have done so many that it becomes second nature. (As noted in the section on marshaling combat, a quick visual check of the combatants just before the start of a bout or battle is also a good idea.) All of this is based on the equipment standards given in the Appendix. You should be familiar with them, as well as with any other requirements that your kingdom may have instituted. The fact that one of the requirements is not mentioned on this checklist does not mean that you should not notice if it has not been met.
2.  Armor inspection must be done with all of the armor on the body of the fighter who is going to wear it. It is not otherwise possible to get an accurate idea of what is covered and what is not, of where gaps may occur as the combatant moves. In weapon inspections, the primary test is safety. If you, as a marshal, do not believe that the weapon is safe (i.e., if you would not be willing to face it), do not let it be used on the field. When in doubt, ask the prospective user if he or she would be willing to fight against the weapon. If not, it should not be used regardless of whether it meets all other requirements. Before you start, remind yourself that armor is hot, not to mention heavy. If the weather is hot, try to find some shade in which to hold the inspection or, at least, for the fighters to stand in while waiting to be inspected. (Similar reasoning applies in case of rain, freezing cold, or other inclement weather. Just because it is possible to fight does not mean that it is pleasant or desirable to stand around in armor.)

